"who can wait quietly while the mud settles?
who can remain still untill the moment of action?"
- Laozi, Tao Te Ching

So far the programs we have seen, will occupy the processor until the program ends.

but many programs may interact with things outside the processor
    communicating over a network
    requesting data from a ssd or worse hard disk

it would be a shame to let the processor idle.
    when it could be doing some other work.
        BTW the OS will let the processor handle other programs.

        but that won't help our own program progress

Asynchronicity
    Synchronous, one at a time

    Asynchronous, multiple things at a time. 
        when you start an action, your program continues to run.
        when the action finishes, the program is informed and gets to access the results

    example scenario: fetch two resources from the network and combine the results
        Synchronous
            one after another, the time taken will be at least the sum of the two responses

        Synchronous two threads of control
            this system will start additional threads of control.
            a thread is another running program whose execution may interleaved with other programs by the OS.
            with multiple processors, likely comes multiple threads.

            so a second thread could start to handle the other request, once both results comeback, they
            can resynchronize

        Asynchronous
            since a network action is happening outside our computer, our processor can still continue running 
            our program

    REFER to ref 2 for a model of the above
            
        
    
    another way to describe the difference.
        Synchronous
            waiting for actions to finish is implicit
        Asynchronous
            waiting for actions to finish is explicit, under our control

        Asynchronicity cuts both ways. It makes expressing problems that do not fit a straight-line model easier.
        but it can make expressing programs that do follow a straight line more awkward.

    Both Browsers and Node.js make operations that might take a while Asynchronous, since relying on threads is 
    notoriously hard (understanding a program is much harder when it's doing multiple things at once). 

Crow Tech
    Certain Crow cultures have the ability to construct computing devices. A species closely related to termites
    has developed a symbitoic relationship with crows. The birds provide them with food, and they operate their 
    complex colonies, with the help of living creatures inside them, perform computations.

    The colonies are usually located in big old nests. The birds and insects work together to build a network of 
    dirt, in which the insects live and work.

    read the rest on the website...

    Crow Tech can run JS, for the rest of the chapter Crow Tech and their computer(bigOak) will be our analogy

Approaches to Asynchronous programming
    Callbacks
        make functions that perform a slow action, take an extra argument, a callback function. When the action 
        finishes, the callback function is called with the result.

        an example is setTimout
            setTimeout(() => console.log('tick'), 500);

            // useful for animations or checking the duration of an action

        performing multiple Async actions in a row with callbacks means you have to keep passing new functions to
        handle the continuation of the computations.

        Crows nest computers have a long-term storage bulb, where data is etched in twigs to be retrieved later.
        Etching or finding data, takes a while, so the interface to long-term storage is async and uses callbacks.

        storage bulbs store JSON-encodable data under different names. Example 'food caches' may hold an array
        of names that point at other pieces of data.
            import {bigOak} from "./crow-tech";

            bigOak.findStorage('food caches', caches => {
                let firstCache = caches[0];
                bigOak.readStorage(firstCache, info => {
                    console.log(info)
                })
            })
            // this style is okay, but once it get's more complicated, such as multiple actions simultaneously, 
            // you gonna end up with nested callback🤮

        read the rest on the website...
            thinks to note
                communication via request-response pairs
                when a request is sent, a respone is sent with confirming receipt and possibly including a reply
                
                each message is tagged with a type
                we can define handlers for each type
                and dependant on type, the handler can produce a response

                crow request type function
                    // first arg, target???. 2nd arg, type, 3rd arg, content, 4th arg, a function to call when response is received
                    bigOak.send("Grey Tree", "noteType", "Let's caw loudly at 7pm", () => console.log("note delivered")) 

                crow response type function, (all crow nest should have a uniformed request and response functions, so packages would be good)
                    import {defineRequestType} from "./crow-tech";

                    defineRequestType("noteType", (nest, content, source, done) => {
                        // take it that nest have a name property
                        console.log(`${nest.name} received note: ${content}`);
                        done();
                    })
                    
                    //in this example, defineRequestType defines a new request type. this examples adds support for note types.


    Promises
        Abstract concepts are best represented by values. So for Async systems, rather than arranging for a function
        to be called at some point in the future. Simplify it by having an object that represents this future event

        This is what the standard class of Promise is. continue reading on website...

        https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Using_promises
            rmb the functions arguments within .then must return result(s)
                if the previous handler starts a promise and doesn't return it, there's no way to track it'scenario
                settlement anymore, and the promise is said to be 'floating
                ...
Failure
    regular JS computations can fail by throwing exceptions.
    Async computations need something like that. A network request may fail, or some code part of the
    Async computation may throw an exception.

    one problem with the callback style of Async programming, is the difficulty to report failures to the 
    callbacks

    read the rest on website...

    so when an exception in a handler occurs, it causes a rejection, the exception value used as the reason
    for rejections.🤔and when a handler returns a promise that is rejected, thatt rejection flows into The
    next promise. There's a Promise.reject function that creates a new, immediately rejected promise.

    to explicitly handle rejections, promises have a catch method that registers a handler to be called when the
    promise is rejected.

    HHMMM🤔 does the term handler refer to .then, .catch and the such? or the functions within in them? is there a difference?
    
    🤯😤😑🤨🤬🥸🤡 so there's a shorthand, then has a second argument for rejection handler.

Networks are Hard
    ...
    when a failure in transmission over a network occurs, just retry arranging

    so the request automatically retries a few times before giving up

    request returns a promise

    even if a request is successfuly delivered, the response may indicte failure if
        the request uses a type that hasn't been defined
        the handlers throws an error
    so,
    our send and defineRequestType shall follow the convention, where the 
        arguments to callbacks
            1st if any, failure reason
            2nd, the actualy result

https://javascript.info/callbacks
    “error-first callback” style.

    The convention is:

    The first argument of the callback is reserved for an error if it occurs. Then callback(err) is called.
    The second argument (and the next ones if needed) are for the successful result. Then callback(null, result1, result2…) is called.
    So the single callback function is used both for reporting errors and passing back results.

https://javascript.info/promise-basics

network flooding
    ...
    https://eloquentjavascript.net/11_async.html#h_pi4+kiBmAy
message routing
    ...
    https://eloquentjavascript.net/11_async.html#h_qb23G8H5P9