Networks and the Internet
    communication between computers are basically just bits, the meaning of the bits is dependant on the encoding
    mechanism.

    Network protocals
        describe a style of communication over a network. there are protocols for sending and fetching emails, 
        sharing files and even controlling computers infected with malicious software
        e.g 
            http
                a protocol for retrieving named resources (chunks of info, such as web pages or pictures).
                specify the side making the request start with a line like this
                    GET /index.html HTTP/1.1

            TCP
                a protocol that ensures the transfer bits to the correct destination in the correct order.
                Almost all internet-connected devices 'speak it'. most communication on the internet is
                built on top of it.

                works as follows:
                    one computer is waiting or listening for other computers to talk to it.
                    for one machine to listen for different kinds of communications at the same time.
                    each listener has a port number. 
                    most protocols specify a default port. e.g
                        emails using the SMTP protocol, the machine uses port 25

                    the other machine can establish a connection by connecting to the target machine using the 
                    correct port number.

                    the listening machine is called the server.
                    the connecting machine is the client

                    once the connection is established. it acts as a two-way pipe for information to flow.
                    you can call TCP an abstraction of the network.

The web
    the world wide web (not to be confused with the internet)
        a set of protocols and formats that allow us to visit web pages with a browser.
        the web, refers to the interconnection via links between pages, hence web

    to become part of the web, connect a machine to the internet and have it listen on port 80 

    each document on the web named by the Uniform Resource Locator
          http://eloquentjavascript.net/13_browser.html
         |      |                      |               |
         protocol       server               path

    machines connected to the internet get an IP address, you can register a domain name for a 
    specific address or set of addresses.

    so when you type a url to the address bar
        1. the browser tries to find what address the domain name refers to
        2. using the HTTP to establish a connection with the server
        3. ask for the resource specified by the path
        4. if all goes well, sends back the document for the browser to display

HTML
    if the tags don't enclose anything they dont need a closing tags, EXCEPT THE SCRIPT TAG e.g.
        <input>
        <meta>

        special meaning characters
            < &gt;
            > &lt;
            & &amp;
            " &quot;

    can load modules
        <script type="module">

    when using various attributes that can contain JS such as onclick you can use &quot; as oppose to a differing quot type
        <button onclick="alert(;quot&boom;quot&);">

In the Sandbox
    running programs from the internet is dangerous, browsing web pages on the other hand is significantly less so.
    So even if you go to a untrustworthy site, JS is usually to limited by the browser(can't look at files on your 
    computer, can't modify anything not related to the web page it was embedded in)

    every now and then, someone coems up with a new way to circumvent limitations of a browser, developers respond by
    fixing the hole. Preferably before it is exploited.

Compatibility and Browser wars
    through the rise and fall in popularity of various browsers throughout history. The top dog felt compelled to 
    unilaterally create new features for the Web. Since users tend to use the most popular browser, websites
    would start using those features - though the features may not necessarily be compatible on other browsers.

    the dark age, where developers had to deal with three incompatible platforms